alright ok I'm going to do two demos one
got me inspired to do an extra one Q and
the first one is going to be a
continuation on this interface
discussion and I'm basically going just
like to show things are done but from
the Jeff or at least how we have
prepared the things to be done by
multiple languages but they're not
mostly used by the GSI and so yeah we
prepared there's one of things we just
came from a talk on interfaces on
peer-to-peer interfaces we discuss our
our reputed fear is like this set of
modules that work very nicely with each
other if that each module has a very
specific defined interface so that we
can just like swap them and put new
pieces upgrading our networking stack I
should show some images I like what the
city faces look like but just to give an
idea like for each of these pieces like
for each other like this building blocks
that you are used to see an Olympian
appear you get like one of these repos
and they always start with a two face -
and then the pipe and then on that repo
you get like modules that people make
the interface like if you ever went your
own you're welcome to submit up or
requester that to the list you guys
really not a nice match so that people
recognize on your report I back you
implement interface it's like a reputed
for your compatible module you can like
some code to just set up test and this
is like those kind of things that when
you do JavaScript you have to deal with
because we don't have nice interfaces
and so the way that we overcome nice way
to describe interfaces for programs
implement and so a way to overcome that
just like create a set of tests that
people can import and use and one of
them very good examples here is the
stream boxer
so the stream max here was actually the
original interface - repo for a leap
utopia
there are currently one two three four
or five
six modules between girl and yes it will
mend this interface they also get a nice
badge you got like some code to set up
this test on on your own test runner go
as a specific way to set up tests and
you can I find it out to do it on there
girl repo it's all described here but
when you scroll down kind of like at
this description or like we don't want
to be a super explicit and like
sometimes these interface changes and I
know we have to update them like what we
want to communicate it like what should
be the things available to the user
like attach much circle connection and
ingest we we say okay it's matter you
see the connection and you tell if it's
a listener or a receiver you know could
be a completely different name could be
a completely different way to attach a
mixer to a connection that doesn't
matter but at least you expose something
and then all of the pieces that
implement that interface in a language
should exactly expose the same function
same thing for dialing and listening and
and so we with this interface and these
test suite that's here we not only sorry
like I wanted to check the source folder
because this is the module that is a
test suite for the code of the module is
the test not the test of the module that
is it a bunch of tests tests like basics
open stream from the dialer up in the
stream from the way snare you know it's
like a connection like attaches from
both hands open the stream from both
sides make sure they're like we can open
stream from both sides there is some
other things like closing like if we
closing the stream like do we close the
mixer because some boxers when you close
the the streams that were open like the
master auto destroys and we wanted for
only Peter Piot like you can add the
mixer open close all the muck streams
and keep the boxer because you might
still want to forfeiture things you just
have don't have like any use for it
right now then there's like stress test
and this we call the mega stress test
because like he takes an hour to run
it's like how we detect
my problems and so on and so with this
battery of tests we implemented two
three multiplexers for Jess one based on
speedy one based on a thing that we
created in-house complex and we can just
like run the tests on these modules and
see that they are compliant to that
interface right this is how we with we
test for that interface in Jess we see
passes here if I go to my ex to do the
same thing like both of them are passing
the same interface so no I know it's
important so so now I know I can go into
my lip you do peer bundle and just like
replace one three months by the other
and both will work on my stack so yeah
that's that's how we we get to play with
multiple building blocks on peer-to-peer
and cool this was one you can find all
the other interfaces for peer all things
for content routing for experience call
ray you always get a nice badge and yeah
that's it okay this was the first part
of the demo or the first demo the second
one is really all to plug these things
together and I'm going pretty quickly
you will find all the code that will run
on that gently peer-to-peer repo on the
examples folder you can find a bunch of
examples like I'll transport protocol
and stream multiplexing works good you
have a voice here so if we go to that
kills I was already there
if we go to death killers and let's try
with the transports first second so most
of these examples always like a create
notes function and this is just like
reading a peer info and adding a multi
other to it there is a and there's
always a part where like the action
happens and here we are just like
starting nodes and like creating a
connection between both but but what I
really want you to pay attention is this
bundle right like this constructor for
the way peer-to-peer node so here we can
see that it's pretty simple like we
actually I think this is a laser pointer
all right I got your tip and so you have
the bundle here it accepts the way peer
to peer class get a constructor any of
the defaults so I as a user of a peer to
peer exceeded my own Whipple P&L that
extends that way peer to peer skeleton
and I say I want to use transport TCP so
this is pretty much like a weight will
appear stack that does the protocol
multiplexing but doesn't do any second
you know doesn't do any peer discovery
just like TCP so if I run this code it
basically will do that create turnout
style from one to each other okay so no
one is listening no two is listening one
dials to the other one on the Nile
protocol thing and right ll peer-to-peer
world and the message passes so very
simple got pro comedy passing over TCP
this is not very exciting like anyone
could just like require that module
enter the fingering so let's go to the
stream max our example protocol and
mixing so here we have again we have
again like my default the the rest of
the code is pretty much the same it's
tying on protocols and I think I know
now I'm but now I'm using TCP and I'm
saying that I have a stream at sir am I
using speedy for this one
and so when I do multiple dial protocols
to from node 1 to node 2 instead of
creating multiple raw sockets I'm
actually creating much streams of over
that stream axis and reusing the
connection and for the user this is
pretty much for yeah the user is pretty
much transparent right because you can't
you feel the same thing and we pure fear
is smart enough to understand oh I have
a stream except to this pier I'm going
to use it if not I try to open a new
connection and we are all happy so if
you run that now put OB another corner
new per copy so by the way just in terms
of API you have tile protocol you
basically specify the pier and if you
want to dial the protocol in which you
want to talk with appear here I say like
I want to talk on protocol a it could be
any kind of string here protocol B and
here is like so when they'll die on
student note - you can open even
multiple connections to the same
protocol so multiple wasters for the
same protocol the other example is here
for stream boxer's is okay this one is
pretty much the same just like we since
the addresses I'm going to run this one
as you can see it works so it did the
thing and in either of these examples
one thing I can do is instead of
accusing speeding I can do here and
change to multiplex
and just make it obvious I also rename
these variables now I'm going to run
and they did the same thing like again
like super swappable like the module
implements the same interface it works
[Laughter]
gets even more conflicts so there is
many other things discovery so like
detecting using something like multicast
dns to find peers on the local area
network same thing like peers will find
each other just for a second time
players won't fight each other to
disappear discovery and once they
discover the peer they just say okay I
found the peer on this local area
network but also you can do things like
pyridine in periodic so we this example
is more advanced one we are already
saying I want to use TCP and this could
be multiple transports again I'm saying
I want to use em plex
I'm saying buy one buy encryption of a
my connection con encryption to be
secure and I want to use this DHT module
which gives the peer routing and content
routing superpowers to my ability a
bundle then I also have my config values
and this is like the standard config
like the giant objects that's like has
some config options and I do the same
thing if I create nodes I use these
properties to connect them so here like
knelled wand i also know to know mm o
tree and then the old one is going to
use content routing to provide and then
like the content low tree will find the
providers of that no other one getting
into the folder pirata your content
driving well nevermind
mix it shows that yeah example one spear
well things about to is content routing
so just make sure I didn't lose you
because no one is going to say
hey like if you're looking for something
come find me
and I know tree is going to find the
nodes that have that are providing that
see ad does it make sense to everyone no
cool so again creature nodes does the
thing and eventually we'll bring the
results this is the proof either from
this we found this this morning there
was like a module yeah okay this is
something that was broken this morning
I'm sorry
this is a boards yeah okay which it is
evening you'll be able to find this
example working and so yeah like you get
all of these properties as you saw it's
very easy to like configure we could
appear in the remaini
you get like an example of like all the
things you can do
yeah yeah if the transports you can pass
the class types or even a nuisance so if
you have a transport with a little bit
of setup you can pass the instance of
the transport you can even I use
multiple stream multiplexers at the same
time why not you might want to talk with
different parts of the network that have
to support boats
you can also that's why this is always
an array like you can support multiple
encryption encryption channels can
support multiple peer discovery
mechanisms you can have multiple
periodic things you have like all these
configuration values some experimental
flags yes with beautify also exposes
pub/sub and then if you want to learn
identify some we peer-to-peer we're not
a bunch of things here from my starting
emails and something in there that's raw
like this is a another thing in the 2000
table so we have a distinct p2p nodes
start and then we could do like a tile
and Daniel and I opera call the
distinction is really like this warms up
the connection so I can down to someone
and like do the second you and shake
this remark sir
all those things but I'm not going to
create a MOOC stream to that nodes yet I
was just going to warm it up and then if
I want to dial on a specific protocol me
as a user of a peer-to-peer like bits up
for example I say I want to dial bits up
to this pier so it does the final
protocol multiplexing to appear we have
a the the close connection we tell it
hang up because if we if I hang up some
people have different opinions about the
name of this they don't fear routing
with frontier content routing like the
two things I was showing you you can
handle multiple protocols this is how
you do it like you say the string for
your protocol the and the word fund and
the matching funk and the match funk is
if you want to do something exotic more
exotic like semper for example for your
protocol you can use a matching function
to do the semper so that you can have
four calls if endures the support
multiple versions same thing for I know
annoying they like we have these events
always there we have it a meteor is that
right when you discover it here
when you connect to appear and when you
disconnect or appears if you want just
like for statistic reasons statistics
that'sthat's reasons which is like
listen to this or if you want to do
something more proactive when you access
cover a peer connect to it you can do it
by by default just happy fest for
example as soon as it discovery just
connect to it because why not you can do
the pings
you have access to the pure books like
all the periods you know like the P
reinforce like information about
yourself like they asked other is is
that where you are listening the adverse
is that other peers see you from the
outside world and you also get the Maps
API which is the same API that I just
like if s exposes so if are familiar
with that one you got this one as well
there's other things here there's also a
stats API so you get kind of like data
from oh you are interacting in the notes
that are on your swarm and in many other
things I think this is it
showing I'll to configure only
peer-to-peer nuts
any questions so if you want to discover
what the here protocol here did warming
up the connection based like warm earth
connection say what is it what protocols
is it so available so when you dial to
the pier so I hear the only thing this
pier could be appearing foe which has
the protons at the pier supports or that
we know that the peer supports or its
PID or it's not the other once
we dial to them and we do the identify
and check its where the other peer tells
the protocols that they support so we
can just go to this object which is in
our pearbook
kind of like the yellow pages of would
appear and you can see which protocol to
the other peer supports but then again
it's identify and identify only happens
once when we first connect to each other
so imagine your application that can
like end all protocols and I know
multiple times it doesn't mean the fact
that is up-to-date so the best thing you
have to do is really well you can use
that as a like a and every six to know
if you should dial but you can always
try to dial on a protocol and the other
thing I can tell you that it is or it
isn't supported did I
yeah yeah so we type EFS LAN or even the
internals of leap appear we do a lot of
like flash the name of the protocol and
an app version so that we can upgrade in
the future any more questions all right
thank you so much oh yeah
microphone please sir here do you think
we should make version of that yeah
absolutely
you mean yeah yeah and I believe you
open an issue just for this yeah I love
that because then it's obvious for every
user like Auto configure every single
you know independent of the language
we've seen yesterday how it is how it is
easy to add a transport to go nowadays
that's awesome but it would even be
better if it's just like a description
the recipe and then we tell it to we
give it to the language in the language
give is if that gives us an instance or
we could appear as all things we need at
some point we even had the idea I'd like
to have a website that works like an
ice-cream machine and thank you can I
say oh I want some more TCP and some
were three mature and some were second
oh I like it just mix it up and I keep
sort of like putting like a sundae out
it was like a JavaScript bundle all the
configuration of we did appear you want
it and just like a funny idea okay all
right yeah I guess it would be pretty
useful for tests so you could very
easily use these configurations and then
run them across the same tests yes yeah
and so I guess the question is like how
complex does that language you need to
be like if we have
identifiers for each of the protocol
implementations if we are just like a
a moody cause I'd like for the booty pop
rerouting the multiple transfers etc
then we just need to have this but with
those IDs so that both hear what she has
rust and all the others can just see
those IDs compared to the table we're at
the model module from the shelf and
mixed ingredients and so yeah like I
think we can very quickly start with
that and I quit the configuration to be
something external
like the configuration of each module to
be something external it becomes more
complex if you want to say in that
language or I want to use PD but in a
special way right that's where it gets a
little bit more complex to do that
multiple language alright like I'm
trying to avoid like having a huge by
Chen I didn't know we can do something
very quickly that serves a lot of
purposes we can optimize yeah and so I
don't know just curiosity for example we
have this periodic and continuity um and
we like to get these we get it to the
VHT and if you go to the VHD you'll see
like all these badges because it really
does all these things at the same time
right it has periodic in front of the
peers it is cut and routing because like
we get to know where the content is and
as well as peer discovery because when
you run a more waka DHT you are
discovering random peers and like
refreshing your routing tables which is
super useful but ideally this is not bad
but like ideally all these pieces that
are here inside this spawn package
should be also separated so that when
you are loading it into a pure peer you
can say I want to just load these
periodic module and it's to other
content routing right now we do that by
enable disabling parts of it like we you
get the whole package and then you can
disable a little bit of it if you want
to other probably most of people that
will use the digital
to use the whole thing anyway 10 little
cool any more questions thank you
[Laughter]